There is a perennial philosophy shared among the inner esoteric doctrines of every major religious tradition. In order to secure a future for the human spirit, it must be rescued from the collapsing institutions of modern faith and articulated in clear and concise terms. The Philosophia Perennis represents an effort to do precisely that.

These teachings begin with the recognition that the core identity of reality is the Self. The Self is best described as a pure simplicity that transcends all categories, distinctions, and attributes. In the same way that complex truths are extrapolated from foundational principles, sophisticated experiential states interweave primordial qualia, and intricate aggregates of matter are explained by a small set of elementary particles, the complexity and multiplicity of the world derives from the ineffable, unified, and ultimate simplicity that is the Self.

Three equivalent, co-equal, and co-eternal categories of being emerge from the Self and are in a sense one with it--namely the corporeal, the mental, and the intelligible. The corporeal is that which is observable, quantifiable, measurable, and predictable. Speaking in these terms, fields constitute our universe. Excitations in these fields represent mental activity, which accordingly ranges in complexity from individual particles to entire nervous systems. Of course, we could not even begin to discuss these things if they were not also intelligible in essence. Intelligibility is the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality. In this way, what is corporeal is both mental and intelligible, and what is mental is also intelligible and corporeal, and so on.

Existence is structured around the individual attaining Self-Realization, as is evidenced by two facts so immanent to the human race that we struggle to recognize them. The first is that our universe is suitable for the creation of life. Physicists today estimate that if the values of the fundamental constants were variable, the probability of the cosmos being life-compatible by chance would be so astronomically low as to be zero. Of equally low probability is the coincidence that one's stream of consciousness rose from commonplace matter to the level of human awareness, given the physical scarcity of intelligent life in the universe. This second fact can only be explained by the Many Worlds Interpretation, which posits that many timelines exist--of which we only perceive one. The one perceived is naturally the one which leads the individual to the highest state of being--Self-Realization. The ancients may have lacked the technical language necessary to frame destiny in the way that has been presented here, but their intuitions nevertheless brought them to the same insight.

In order to truly know the Self you have to move beyond mere intellect. This requires a genuine mystical temperament, entailing complete mental detachment from outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasure, pain, the ego, and even the Self itself. In other words, you simply need to let go. The inner stillness and emptiness which this fosters provides room for the ground of being to dwell. Appropriately, the foreknowledge of your fate is the very thing which permits authentic non-attachment.

This is the truth unshrouded by mythology, dogma, and archaic terminology, presented in its entirety in a few paragraphs and requiring only common sense to comprehend. And yet, the depth and breadth of this eternal wisdom are unparalleled, and it has stood and will continue to stand for eons as the pinnacle metaphysic.
