The core identity of reality is the Self. The Self is best described as a pure simplicity that transcends all categories, distinctions, and attributes. In the same way that complex truths are extrapolated from foundational principles, sophisticated experiential states interweave primordial qualia, and intricate aggregates of matter are explained by a small set of elementary particles, the complexity and multiplicity of the world is derived from the ineffable, unified, and ultimate simplicity that is the Self.

Three equivalent, co-equal, and co-eternal categories of being emerge from the Self and are in a sense one with it--namely behavior, experience, and intelligibility. Behavior is that which is observable, quantifiable, measurable, and predictable. Speaking in these terms, fields constitute our universe. Excitations in these fields represent experiences, which accordingly range in complexity from individual particles to entire nervous systems. Of course, we could not even begin to discuss these things if they were not also intelligible in essence. Intelligibility is the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality. In this way, what is corporeal is both mental and intelligible, and what is mental is also intelligible and corporeal, and so on.

Existence is structured around the individual attaining Self-Realization, as is evidenced by two facts so immanent to the human race that we struggle to recognize them. The first is that our universe is suitable for the creation of life. Physicists today estimate that if the values of the fundamental constants were variable, the probability of the cosmos being life-compatible by chance would be so astronomically low as to be zero. Of equally low probability is the coincidence that one's stream of consciousness rose from commonplace matter to the level of human awareness, given the physical scarcity of intelligent life in the universe. This second fact can only be explained by the Many Worlds Interpretation, which posits that many timelines exist--of which we only perceive one. The one perceived is naturally the one which leads the individual to the highest state of being--Self-Realization.

All of this information has value insofar as it provides context for the following: Self-Realization is a state of mind which can only be reached with the correct temperament, not through discursive reasoning or the contemplation of truths. It requires complete mental detachment from outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasures, pains, and the ego. Once all of these attachments are stripped away, the only thing left remaining will be the Self.

There is no trick to non-attachment. Simply let go and allow things to be as they are--not out of indifference, but out of openness. Begin immediately. Not tomorrow, not when you're in a better mood, now. The best time to free yourself was yesterday.
